When creating a REST API, good documentation is instrumental,
and keeping that documentation updated with every
new change is also instrumental.
Accomplishing this manually is a tedious exercise,
so automation via Swagger is a timesaver.
Swagger is a set of open source tools built built around the open
API specification that can help you design,
build, document, and consume REST APIs.
There are several parts to Swagger.
The Swagger Editor,
which is a browser-based editor where you can write open API specs,
the Swagger UI renders open API specs as interactive API documentation,
and the Swagger Codegen which generates server stubs and
client libraries from an open API spec.
We will look at the Swagger UI.
The Swagger UI defines a set of HTML, JavaScript,
and CSS assets to dynamically generate
documentation from a Swagger-compliant API.
These files are bundled by the Swagger UI project and the
API documentation rendered in the browser.
Besides rendering documentation,
Swagger UI allows other API developers or consumers to
interact with the API's resources without having any of the
implementation logic in place.
We will look at Swagger 2 for a REST web service,
specifically,
we will use the Springfox implementation of the Swagger 2 specification,
and we need to include these dependencies and in the Maven pom file.
If you are using IntelliJ, don't forget to add the libraries to the modules after modifying the pom file.